# Lab JUnit Test Suites

## Learning Goals

* Gain experience with identifying Black-Box and White-Box test cases.
* Gain practice writing and running `JUnit` test cases.

## Key Terms and Concepts

* `JUnit` - A unit testing framework where tests are written for each method in a class, each with their own assertions about what the result should be in order to test cases (See [documentation](https://junit.org/junit5/) for more, and [here](https://www.qualitestgroup.com/resources/knowledge-center/how-to-guide/set-junit-eclipse/) for information about JUnit and eclipse).
* `ArrayList` - An ArrayList is a resizable array-like data structure, where items can be added and removed regardless of the initialized size (See 1.3 pg. 136 in the textbook and the lecture slides for more).

## Description

This is lab involves designing and implementing Unit-test cases for
an existing non-trivial implementation:
   1. Study the included ArrayList implementation.
   2. In small teams, review the code (for the `add(index,item)`, 
      `set`, `get`, `indexOf()`, and `remove(index)` methods), 
      and identify the required test cases to fully exercise all
      cases for each of these methods.
   3. Compare your list with those generated by other teams to
      generate a master list.
   4. Each individual will sign up for one identified test case,
      and implement it as working and well commented JUnit test
      case.  This should be a completely self-contained JUnit 
      test case that:
      * creates an ArrayList with the appropriate contents.
      * executes the operation to be tested.
      * ascertains whether or not the operation worked correctly.
      * culminates in appropriate `assert` calls.

## Getting started

1. Follow the same steps for previous labs/assignments to clone the github repository for this assignment. 

2. Study the included [ArrayList implementation](ArrayList/src/ArrayList.java), 
   and think about what kinds of ArrayLists would be required to test
   every situation that could happen in that code.

3. In Eclipse, use the *JUnit Test* creation wizzard to create a new
   test case, containing only one method, for the situation you have
   signed up to implement.

4. Make sure that 
   * your method has a mnemonic name (suggesting the assertion
     to be tested) 
   * the *Javadoc* comments before your method describe the method
     and assertion being tested.
   * your code comments fully describe 
     - the pre-conditions that must be established to test this assertion
     - the (combination of) operations that will be invoked
     - the expected results that will be checked

5. Run your JUnit test case, in Eclipse, and confirm that it compiles
   with no warnings, and works successfully.


## Grading

Your submissin will be graded based on the following criteria:


| Criterion                                | Points |
| :--------------------------------------- | :----- |
| clean compilation w/no warnings          | 1      |
| correctly implements specified test case | 3      |
| correct in form, runs under JUnit        | 2      |
| correct ArrayList implementation passes  | 2      |
| comments, format, names                  | 2      |

NOTE: Code that does not compile will not be accepted! Make sure that your code compiles before submitting it.

## Submitting your work

Double-check that your work is indeed pushed in Github! It is your responsibility to ensure that you do so before the deadline. Don't forget to commit and push your changes as you go and to edit the provided `json`.

